First shot for Security Consideration (#383)
quicwg/multipath: draft-ietf-quic-multipath.md

Furthermore, as connection IDs have to be issued by both endpoint for the same path ID before an endpoint can open a path, each endpoint can further control the per-path resource usage (beyond the connection IDs) by limiting the number of Path ID that is issues connection IDs for.

Therefore to avoid unnecessarily resource usage that potentially could be exploited in a resource exhaustion attack, endpoints should allocate those additional path resource, such as e.g. for packet number handling, only after path validation has successfully completed.

## Request Forgery with Spoofed Address

The path validation mechanism as specified in {{Section 8.2. of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} for migration is used
unchanged for initiation of new paths in this extension. Respectively the security considerations
on source address spoofing as outlined In {{Section 21.5.4 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} equally apply.

Similarly, the anti-amplification limits as specified in {{Section 8 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} need to be
followed to limit the amplification risk.

> However, while {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}} only allows the use of one path simultaneously and therefore only one path migration at the time should be validated, this extension allows for multiple open paths, that could in theory be migrated all at the same time, and it allows for multiple active paths that could be initialised simultaneously. Therefore, each path could be used to further amplify an attack. Respectively endpoints needs limit the number of maximum paths and might consider additional measures to limit the number of concurrent path validation processes e.g. by pacing them out or limiting the number of path initiation attempts over a certain time period.

Reviewer: (1) The core concept is the amplification ratio. When you have X number of paths, to trigger X number of path migrations, you need to send X amount of data to the server (one copy for each path). Therefore the amplification ratio does not change for migration scenario. Amplification attack risk for new path creation scenario should be small because it requires attacker to guess the new CID right. Please correct me if I misunderstood.

# Security Considerations

> ## Path States

Reviewer 2: We are missing some kind of introduction. We need to say that there is basically no changes from RFC 9000, and in particular to the use of TLS, except in four domains:

* Allocation of resource for Connection Identifiers per path, 
* Allocation of several simultaneous path contexts, and associated resource,
* Greater use of path creations, and thus risks of the request forgery attacks
* Use of multiple number spaces, and encryption requirements

Author: I had the same feeling about lacking general introduction for this section. Trying to add some texts.

As the maximum Path ID is negotiated by both endpoints with transport parameter initial_max_path_id
and MAX_PATH_ID frame, Endpoints can limit the usage of Path ID and associated path resources by
limiting the maximum Path ID issued by themselves.

Before creating a new path, endpoints MUST issue unused CIDs for the corresponding Path ID.
Endpoints also have a strategy to only issue new CIDs of the lowest available unused Path ID
for limiting the creation for new paths.

> 

Reviewer 2: Not sure about the capital MUST here. We are not making a protocol specification, but merely explaining that endpoints can control the number of paths.

> ## Path States
> 
> As the maximum Path ID is negotiated by both endpoints with transport parameter initial_max_path_id
> and MAX_PATH_ID frame, Endpoints can limit the usage of Path ID and associated path resources by
> limiting the maximum Path ID issued by themselves.
> 
> Before creating a new path, endpoints MUST issue unused CIDs for the corresponding Path ID.
> Endpoints also have a strategy to only issue new CIDs of the lowest available unused Path ID
> for limiting the creation for new paths.
> 
> Consider allocating memory resources and other path related resources in a minimized manner
> to avoid being exploited by vulnerabilities, endpoints are suggested to allocate the necessary path resource
> after the path validation is fully completed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Memory Allocation for Per-Path Resources

The initial_max_path_id transport parameter and the Max Path ID field in the MAX_PATH_ID frame limit the number of paths an endpoint is willing to maintain and accordingly limits the associated path resources.

Furthermore, as connection IDs have to be issued by both endpoint for the same path ID before an endpoint can open a path, each endpoint can further control the per-path resource usage (beyond the connection IDs) by limiting the number of Path ID that is issues connection IDs for.

Therefore to avoid unnecessarily resource usage that potentially could be exploited in a resource exhaustion attack, endpoints should allocate those additional path resource, such as e.g. for packet number handling, only after path validation has successfully completed.
```

Reviewer 2: +1 @mirjak

# Security Considerations

> The multipath extension retains all the security feature of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}} and {{QUIC-TLS}}, particularly regarding the use of TLS, but requires some additional consideration regarding the following amendments:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The multipath extension retains all the security features of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}} and {{QUIC-TLS}}
but requires some additional consideration regarding the following amendments:
```

> The multipath extension inherits all the security designs of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}} and {{QUIC-TLS}}, particularly regarding the utilization of TLS, with the exception of enhancements in four specific areas:
> 
> - The allocation of resources for Connection Identifiers on a per-path basis;
> - The provisioning of multiple concurrent path contexts and the associated resources;
> - An increased frequency in path creation, thus the risk of request forgery attacks needs to be carefully considered and addressed;
> - The implementation of numerous number spaces and the corresponding encryption mandates.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The multipath extension retains all the security feature of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}} and {{QUIC-TLS}}, particularly regarding the use of TLS, but requires some additional consideration regarding the following amendments:

- the need of potential additional resources as connection IDs are now maintained per-path;
- the provisioning of multiple concurrent path contexts and the associated resources;
- the possibility to create and use multiple simultaneous paths and the corresponding increased amplification risk for request forgery attacks;
- the changes on encryption requirements due to the use of multiple number spaces.
```

> - the changes on encryption requirements due to the use of multiple number spaces.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- the changes on encryption requirements due to the use of multiple packet number spaces.
```

## Memory Allocation for Per-Path Resources

The initial_max_path_id transport parameter and the Max Path ID field
in the MAX_PATH_ID frame limit the number of paths an endpoint is willing

> to maintain and accordingly limits the associated path resources.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
to maintain and accordingly limit the associated path resources.
```

Furthermore, as connection IDs have to be issued by both endpoint for the
same path ID before an endpoint can open a path, each endpoint can further
control the per-path resource usage (beyond the connection IDs) by limiting
the number of Path ID that it issues connection IDs for.

Therefore, to avoid unnecessarily resource usage, that potentially could be exploited
in a resource exhaustion attack, endpoints should allocate those additional path resource,
such as e.g. for packet number handling, only after path validation has successfully completed.

## Request Forgery with Spoofed Address

The path validation mechanism as specified in {{Section 8.2. of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} for migration is used
unchanged for initiation of new paths in this extension. Respectively the security considerations

> on source address spoofing as outlined In {{Section 21.5.4 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} equally apply.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
on source address spoofing as outlined in {{Section 21.5.4 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} equally apply.
```
